28/07/2022, 18:58                          Yahoo Mail - Concerns and Issues relating to Project Mezzaria - Offer of Possession




     Concerns and Issues relating to Project Mezzaria - Offer of Possession

     From: Mezzaria Flat Buyers Welfare Association (mezzariafbwa@gmail.com)
     To:      nkohli@mahagunindia.com; amitjain@mahagunindia.com; crmmezzaria@mahagunindia.com

     Cc:      mezzariafbwa@gmail.com; sunealsinghal@hotmail.com; awas.cons.senior68@gmail.com

     Date: Wednesday, 26 June 2019, 18:11 GMT+5:30




     Date: 26th June 2019


     To: Mr. Amit Jain
     Chairman -M/s Nexgen Infracon Pvt Ltd
     Correnthum Towers
     Sector-62, NOIDA. U.P


     Dear Sir,



     Subject: Concerns and Issues relating to Project Mezzaria - Offer of Possession



     You are aware that we are a registered Association of the buyers of flats in the project titled “Mahagun Mezzaria”
     (being developed by Nexgen Infracon Private Limited) and have close to 200 buyers as our members. We have
     also met you and your project teams on several occasions in the past.

     We are pleased to see the project making progress towards completion. We have now been informed by several
     of our members that they have received a so called 2 page letter in the name of Offer of Possession without
     Statement of Accounts. Subsequently some members have received “Final Statement of Account” containing
     erroneous figures of amount due towards balance payable by a certain date. Also, 30 stamp papers have been
     asked for and the content of Agreements on these Stamp Papers not shared till date.

     A study of these two documents and looking at the current state of project makes us feel very concerned and
     worried about the entire process that you are trying to follow before offering actual possession/ hand-over of the
     flats.

     For the sake of clarity, the concerns of the members are stated as under:

           1. Several of our members have written letters to your organization raising their concerns over the contents of
              your letter “Offer of Possession” but no specific response has been sent to the members from your end.
              For your ready reference, an e-mail written by one of our members 15 June 2019 is attached. We would
              request you to respond to all the buyers with specific answers to the issues raised by them.
           2. Many of our members (buyers) have visited the site to see their flat after they received “Offer of
              Possession”. Most have expressed disappointment at the quality / state of readiness (including common
              areas) and others have expressed disbelief and reported that their flats are far from ready. Members have
              shared their findings with association by sending dated photographs and some have also written to you in
              this regard. It is desirable that you address buyers concern as to how offer of possession has been made
              when flats and common areas are obviously not ready.
           3. Further, on review of the Final Statement of Account as received by many members, several discrepancies
              and omissions have been noted.
           4. We note that IFMS, Sinking Fund and other charges being collected on account of Maintenance are being
              demanded to be paid to Nexgen Infracon Pvt Ltd? These should be deposited in an escrow account and be
              used for maintenance purposes only. You may please take necessary steps in this regard and inform the


                                                                                                                                 1/3
28/07/2022, 18:58                          Yahoo Mail - Concerns and Issues relating to Project Mezzaria - Offer of Possession


             individual buyers for payment accordingly, as and when due so that these funds are utilised only for their
             intended purpose.
          5. No charges for Club usage can be collected in advance. These need to be determined in a fair and
             transparent manner first and then collected on a month on month basis as per actual usage.
          6. Common area maintenance should not be treated as a source of income for Mahagun / Nexgen Infracon. It
             is only reimbursement of actual cost incurred. Hence Mahagun must provide full details of computation of
             Maintenance Charges keeping in mind the following aspects:
                     Interest to be earned from IFMS, Sinking Fund;
                     Minimum one year warranty on all equipment. In case, warranty has expired due to delay on
                     account of Mahagun, one year maintenance of all equipment must be to the account of Mahagun.
          7. Maintenance to be charged on monthly basis only, instead of your demand of 24 months in advance. Further,
             there is no clarity on the start date for applicability of such dues.
          8. If any customer has been offered free Maintenance for a certain period, Mahagun should bear that cost.
             Please confirm that such cost, including the deemed share of unsold flats is not loaded on to the flat buyers.
          9. Please confirm that while computing maintenance cost, a minimum of one year warranty of all equipment
             from date of taking of actual possession has been taken into account.
         10. Please provide the justification of charging the flat buyers a sum of Rs. 25 per sq. ft. for Farmers’
             Compensation and basis of the calculation. What is the total amount due toward Farmers’ Compensation?
         11. Please confirm that the Electricity supply from PVVNL to each buyer has been provisioned at no additional
             cost and not through Mahagun’s single point supply. You are well aware that it is a mandatory requirement
             now.
         12. We are surprised to see additional charges being demanded from some of the buyers in the name of “Unit
             Charge Revised Area Charges” which are applied for not only base sale charge but also on several other
             heads. In our meetings earlier, we had requested you to provide the justification of the increased area of the
             flat but same has not been done. We had expected that the super area of each flat would have decreased
             given that since launch of the project in the year 2011-12, the number of flats constructed has gone up
             significantly [from 570 to 718] by way of increased FAR, which should result in same services area to be
             spread over larger flat area. It is therefore surprising that despite no increase in carpet area, you have
             arbitrarily increased the saleable area.
         13. During the visit of some of the buyers and also during our site meeting a few months ago, we were
             informed of appointment of a Quality Auditor who will be certifying the completion of each flat before hand-
             over. Kindly furnish the details of appointed Quality Auditor for us to satisfy ourselves with the firms
             competence and independence of the Quality Auditor's. Given that the Quality Auditor shall discharge his
             duties in a fiduciary capacity (since he shall owe duties to the buyers / members), please provide terms of
             the appointment and the scope of the verification to be carried out by such Quality Auditor.
         14. We would expect that a copy of such report is provided to each buyer for their flat and only when they are
             satisfied, they should be asked to pay and take possession. The buyers at their option also reserve the right
             to appoint an auditor to carry out independent quality check to ensure that the flat and related support
             services and facilities are built as per minimum standards stated in the Agreement. Please note that similar
             orders have been passed by NCDRC in a recent judgement. Please confirm that that your team will extend
             full cooperation in this regard.
         15. Any payment due on possession shall be made only when the flat is ready for possession / handover duly
             complete in every respect.
         16. In your final statement of account, there is no mention of credit due for delay in delivery of flats. During the
             visits of buyers to your office and calls to your executives, they have been given inconsistent information, the
             most common being, that Nexgen Infracon shall pay back the penalty after receiving full payment as
             demanded. You must make your position clear for each case and advise the credit due with calculations
             thereof before demanding any sum from the buyers.
         17. Many buyers have also noticed a significantly high amount of interest charged in the final statement of
             account but no details of its calculations have been provided. This is as shocking to the buyers as to us. We
             wonder why was the justified interest for any delayed instalment not charged in the next demand instead of
             waiting for all these years? Further what is the rate of interest charged in this regard?

     An affirmative action and confirmation on each of the points noted above is requested within one week of receipt
     of this mail/letter.

     Our members have expressed extreme dissatisfaction at the attitude of Nexgen Infracon and are waiting for your
     positive response so that they can take possession.

     You will observe from the above and the letters and visits/calls from several buyers individually that it is very
     serious matter and needs your urgent attention. While some members have already reached out to higher
     authorities in State and Central Government, more buyers / members could take additional steps if their issues
     are not satisfactorily redressed.

     It is extremely necessary that customers, who are the Raison d’ Etre of business are treated fairly as any unfair
     treatment would give rise to display of resentment and anger of buyers through legal, social media, electronic and
     print media as well as public agitation.

                                                                                                                                 2/3
28/07/2022, 18:58                          Yahoo Mail - Concerns and Issues relating to Project Mezzaria - Offer of Possession


     Please note that in such a situation, you will be solely responsible for its consequences.



     Thank you,



     Yours sincerely,

     Gurudeo Sinha (President)

     Suneal Kumar Singhal (Secretary)

     MEZZARIA FLAT BUYERS ASSOCIATION




              Offer of possession – Flat No 2217, Tower 5 (Valencia), Mahagun Mezzaria (“Property”).eml
              224.2kB

              Gmail - Offer of possession – Flat No 2217, Tower 5 (Valencia), Mahagun Mezzaria (“Property”).pdf
              180.2kB

              Mahagun Mezzaria Site as on 15 June 2019 (2).pdf
              2MB




                                                                                                                                 3/3
