                                                                                     e-Mail: mezzariafbwa@gmail.com
                  MEZZARIA                                                           Web Site: http://www.mezzaria.org

                  FLAT BUYERS’ WELFARE ASSOCIATION
                  E-611, First Floor, Greater Kailash Part - II, New Delhi –110048

                                                                                     Date: September 24 , 2019

To:
         Smt. Ritu Maheshwari, CEO

         New Okhla Industrial Development Authority,
         Administrative Complex, Sector 6,
         NOIDA- 201301
         District Gautam Budh Nagar, U.P., India

Dear Madam,

Subject: Concerns and Issues relating to Project Mahagun Mezzaria, GH-01/A, Sector 78, Noida.
Background:
Mahagun Group is developing a residential complex under their group company Nexgen Infracon Private
Limited at the above address. The land for the same was leased by New Okhla Industrial Development
Authority to Nexgen Infracon Pvt Ltd for a period of 90 years vide lease deed dated 4th June 2010 to
develop Group Housing / Residential Flats. This is articulated clearly under various clauses and terms
& conditions of the subject lease deed.
Approval to develop Group Housing / Residential Flats was granted vide Noida/Mu.Va.Ni./III-272/504
dated 2nd Mar’12. At this stage promoter started selling the flats to various interested buyers.
Since First Approval Nexgen Infracon has made Significant Material changes to building plans vide
Second Approval dated 31st Aug’12 (Noida/Mu.Va.Ni./III-272/553) and Third Approval dated 13th Apr’16
(Noida/Mu.Va.Ni./III-272/888) without due regards to Section 4 - General liabilities of promoter as laid
out in U.P. Apartment (Promotion Of Construction, Ownership And Maintenance) Act, 2010.


Dear Madam, having put across the background we, in capacity of “Mezzaria Flat Buyers Welfare
Association” request your due consideration towards following Complaint / Issues being faced by
Buyers:
      1. Construction Of Commercial Mart open to public and carved out of Group Housing Project

         The developer, in its Third Approval dated 13th April 2016, has altered the contours of the project
         and carved out a Commercial Complex / Mart underneath one of the residential towers located at
         the front west corner of the project to make large / undue profit for himself. This location has been
         chosen to allow opening of a full fledged gate and accompanying ramps, stairways and pathways
         for outside public to use this commercial complex. At the same time, the Convenience Shopping
         units that were proposed / approved in earlier plans for the Captive use of the residents (1%
         allowed under the regulations) have been removed completely from the plans, which makes us
         believe that the approval for this so-called Mart was a substitution of location and it should have
         remained confined to exclusive and captive use of residents only. Instead they have changed it
         with malafide motives.

         This change in plans has following consequences:
         a. Loss of Privacy and Security as the project now does not have a periphery wall and is open
             to public. Safety and Security risk to the residents have already been brought to your kind



                                                                                                                 1/6
      attention by the residents / buyers of several other developments in Noida area. This
      particular location has even higher risk of causing massive traffic jams and congestions due
      to it being the entry point for Metro users of multiple Societies located further down that road,
      including Mahagun Moderne, Sikka Karmic, Urban Casa, Civitech and many others in various
      stages of development.
   b. Construction of Mart has blocked the periphery road and all round access to resident vehicles
      as a ramp has been constructed under the mart entry gate to enter the basement.

   Action Requested: We humbly request you to ensure that Mart should not be allowed to have
   access to Public and must remain Captive for use of residents only. This is a Residential Project
   and 1% area for daily need shops was usurped from it in making this Mart public.




2. Violation of Fire Safety Norms by removing Periphery Road, Dead ends and insufficient
   width of internal road with hard surface for Fire tender access

   With Third Approval dated 13th April’16 and subsequently as per Completion Drawings that have
   been submitted for Phase-I on 31st May’19, the developer has seriously compromised the Fire
   and Life Safety Regulations. This Project no longer has an all around Periphery Road along the
   boundary wall. From perspective of Fire Tender access, a dead end has been created due to
   public access to the mart and making a ramp under it leading to basement. All round periphery
   road existed In all three approvals, but is absent in completion drawings. In First and Second
   Approval width of the peripheral roads was 9.0M and that of the inside roads was 6.0M. In Third
   approval width of outer periphery road was reduced to 7.5M. Completion drawing now shows
   outer road as Only 6.07M. Inner road though shown as 6.0M does not exist. Instead there is
   pathway with grass on the side. Space between obstructions is just 6.0M. There is no road with
   6.0M wide hard surface on internal road. This Seriously Compromises the ability of Fire
   Tenders to have access to towers from All sides. Project which had three Gates in First and
   Second approval now only has two gates and an end has been blocked due to the Mart. Reduced
   Road width and absence of designated Visitors Parking is likely to further hinder the access for
   Emergency services. Please see photos attached.

   These changes in 3rd Approval and Phase-1 Completion Drawings, Fire and Life Safety of the
   residents may be seriously compromised due to limited access for Fire Tender due to stated
   reasons:

   a. Absence of wide enough Internal Roads with hard surface roads for Fire Tenders (45 MT)
   b. Dead End caused by Ramp going under the Mart
   c. Absence of Designated Visitors Parking coupled with fewer gates

   Action Requested: We humbly request you to ensure that Fire and Life Safety of residents is in
   no way compromised. Project will be safer with all around Periphery Road, wide enough but not
   less than in Third Approval (7.5M) AND wide enough roads with hard surface where internal
   roads are concerned. Fire clearance obtained whilst applying for OC may please be reviewed and
   a physical close inspection of the premises may be carried out.




                                                                                                   2/6
3. Unauthorized Constructions (Religious Structure and Others) without approval plans
   reducing Green Area without consent and against the wishes of buyers

   The builder has been erecting permanent structures in the open areas on one pretext or the other
   thus reducing the green spaces, in violation of the building plans. A structure termed as
   “Religious Structure” is being erected right in the middle of green area thus limiting the space
   available for children to play and for other residents sit in leisure and relax. We are not clear
   about intention of the builder in erecting this structure. This structure was not shown or approved
   in any of the previous approval plans. In addition the builder has also erected a large room on the
   east end of the front wall, presumably as an electric room. This structure also is not shown in any
   of approval drawings.

   Action Requested: We humbly request you to ensure that builder is not allowed any construction
   of such nature and must adhere to approved plans maximizing green cover.
   The structure built in middle of the garden as shown in the picture below, should either be
   removed (and green area restored) OR be retained as Rain shelter / Gazebo with seating
   arrangement. The room on east on the front wall should be removed altogether.




4. Violation of condition #7 of Partial OC, IFMS/SINKING Fund and Water connection

   Builder has been issued a partial OC with conditions attached. One of the conditions (#7) is that
   Visitors Parking for the project must exist inside the boundary of the project. In reality no
   provision has been made for Visitors Parking within the project. It is not even shown on the plans.



                                                                                                  3/6
   The width of the periphery roads of the complex barely 6.07M and this is barely sufficient for two
   way traffic. Instead of Visitors parking, an area has been carved out of the project for parking
   outside along the North wall to service the Commercial Mart.

   Additionally builder is forcing possession takers to deposit IFMS deposit and Sinking Fund in
   his own account and not in an Escrow account. As you are aware, many AOA’s are already
   struggling to recover IFMS and Sinking Fund deposits from the builders for years after taking
   over charge. This has been a major reason for failure of most of the AOA’s in managing the
   affairs effectively.

   Water Connection: It has been reliably learnt that builder has applied for Water Connection for
   200 Flats whereas Partial OC from Noida Authority has been obtained for 318 Flats. Sufficiency
   of water supply and its continuity is an essential element to a residential flat. You must be aware
   that same Builder built and sold Moderne project, wherein Mahagun opted for water supply of
   only 1300 flat owners against existing 2500, that is creating a lot of hardship to residents of
   Moderne which exists in the same area.

   Action Requested: We humbly request you to ensure that:

   a. A suitable and adequate Parking Space is provided for the Visitors as this will not only be
      safe, it will also not cause undue occupancy on the public road outside the project.
   b. Designated Parking space will Ensure that Emergency Vehicles have unhindered access and
      are not blocked on the narrow access roads.
   c. Area for Parking Space carved out from project at the North Wall should be returned within
      the boundary of the project.
   d. Builder is instructed to collect IFMS / Sinking in a designated Escrow account and not use it
      for any other purpose but as Interest Free Security Deposit / Sinking Fund.
   e. Builder has sufficient connections for water supply that caters to each flat.




5. Tripartite Registration Deed between Noida Authority (Lessor), Nexgen Infracon (Lessee)
   and Buyer (Sublessee)

   Builder is not executing sub-lease deed on the pretext of delay on the part of Noida Authority, and
   offering possession without execution of sub-lease deed. It is pertinent to mention that builder has
   collected the Stamp Duty Charges from flat owners. Now after having assured the Registration of flats,
   they have started offering possession without it calling it “possession for fit-outs”. You are very well
   aware that thousands of flats are today occupied without registry using this very route.

   In line with Section 5 - Rights of Apartment Owners as laid out in U.P. Apartment (Promotion Of
   Construction, Ownership And Maintenance) Act, 2010 The Tripartite Registration Deed should
   specifically mention that post completion certificate Nexgen Infracon (Lessee) shall have no rights
   whatsoever on any part of the project and the project in totality must be handed over to legally
   constituted RWA.



                                                                                                       4/6
   Action Requested: We humbly request you to ensure:

   a. That Builder clears all dues and initiates registration process forthwith as many buyers in
      Phase-I have already made full payments and deposited Stamp Duty charges as well.

   b. That suitable clause is inserted in the Tripartite Registration Deed to ensure that post
      completion certificate Nexgen Infracon (Lessee) shall have no rights whatsoever on any part
      of the project and the project in totality must be handed over to legally constituted RWA.

6. Farmers Compensation demand on home buyers and its Quantum

   The builder has been forcing the buyers to pay Farmers Compensation. It is our understanding
   that any such liability or compensation falls solely on account of the builder. Accordingly amount
   payable under such liability, including interest if any should be met by the builder from his own
   resources.

   In this particular case the Builder has raised demand for Pratikar against individual buyers to
   whom possession is being offered at the rate of INR 25/- per square foot of Saleable Area. Total
   Saleable Area based on flat sizes amounts to 21.76 Lakh Sq Feet which translates into collection
   of about 5.44 Crores. We wish to point out that the builder is not only passing his own liability on
   to the innocent buyers but is also trying to make a profit from it. As per information available
   through RTI, original pratikar demand as raised on 25th May’17 was 2.88 Crores. Due to non-
   payment of this amount by the builder the total pending demand for pratikar as on 30th June’19
   has risen to 3.82 Crores including delay penalty at 14% Interest.

   Action Requested: We humbly request you to ensure:

   a. That the builder is Instructed to withdraw demand of INR 25/- towards Farmers
      Compensation in totality from all buyers.
   b. That builder only raises demands that are fair and accounted for by supporting documents.
   c. That buyers are not forced to pay builder’s liabilities that are solely due to delays caused by
      the builder.

7. Direct Electricity Supply to Residents and Common areas from PVVNL

   In accordance with 13th Amendment to Electricity Supply Code, it is mandatory for New High
   Rise Buildings to opt for multi point supply from PVVNL. However, we have been informed that
   Nexgen Infracon is insisting that the buyers who have been offered possession take electricity
   supply from Nexgen Infracon. Nexgen Infracon is forcing possession takers in Phase-I by making
   them sign consent for Single Point connection from the builder. Project is already delayed by
   three years and possession takers are left with no choice but to sign all the one sided documents
   lest their possession is further delayed.

   Action Requested: Since Builder is required to submit electrical plans to you, we humbly request
   you to ensure that:

   a. Builder be suitably instructed to apply for Multi Point Electricity connection from PVVNL for all
      718 Flats.
   b. That builder ensures installation is as per required specifications of PVVNL and at no extra
      cost to Flat owners. It is noteworthy that amendment has now existed for almost a year
      before builder applied for partial OC for 318 flats. Balance 400 flats are in Phase-2 and will
      take a few months more.




                                                                                                   5/6
Scanned by CamScanner
